# Instructions for creating the worksheet in `worksheet.md` #

This is document version 1, dated 2025-02-24.

These instructions apply to the file in the IntelliJ project called
`worksheet.md`.

1. You MAY customize the CSS for your accessibility needs.
2. You MUST personalize the information at the top of the
   `worksheet.md` file.
3. You MUST acknowledge lecture notes, lab sheets, tutorials, the
   course reading, and any additional resources you have used. Do this
   in the `acknowledgements.md` file.
4. You SHOULD hyperlink help from written sources, such as the course
   reading, Piazza, and CodeGolf &mdash; it is not necessary to
   hyperlink to lecture materials: instead say which lecture(s) the
   information comes from.
5. You SHOULD use the abbreviated hyperlink generated by the website's
   `share` button for posts from the StackExchange family (whether
   CodeGolf or another of their sites).
 
# Worksheet #

Put your worksheet in this section. Order its sections and subsections
the way you feel is clearest. Try hard not to use subsubsections
(three levels deep).

Make use of markdown's features and use those features consistently.

[The main instructions](A2.1instructions.md "Assignment 2 Part 1 instruction")
provide the design requirements for the worksheet generally and the
diagram specifically. 

# Original challenge question from CodeGolf #

This section MUST be at the end of your worksheet.

You MUST update the hyperlink with a meaningful description, correct 
URL using the shortened version, and with an appropriate tooltip for
accessibility.
[Short link to CodeGolf challenge](short url to the CodeGolf challenge "tooltip text")

You MUST paste a plain text version of the challenge text as it
appears on CodeGolf.

<STYLE>
* { /* Don't leave any empty lines or IntelliJ might not render correctly */
  /* Text size */
  font-size:   1.1rem;
  /*font-size:   1.2rem;*/
  /* Zenburn dark theme */
  background-color: #2A252A;
  color:            #D5DAD5;
  /* One Dark theme */
  /*background-color: #282C34;
  color:            #ABB2BF;*/
  /* white-ish on dull blue-ish */
  /*background-color: DarkSlateGray;
    color:            AntiqueWhite;*/
  /* white on black */
  /*background-color: black;
  color: white;*/
  /* black on white */
  /*background-color: white;
  color: black;*/
  /* nearly black on bright yellow */
  /*background-color: #FFFFAA;
  color:            #080808;*/
  /* black on bright blue */  
  /*background-color: #99CCFF;
  color:            black;*/
}
body {
  /* width of the text column */
  width: 80%;
  /* line spacing */
  line-height: 180%;
  /*line-height: 200%;*/
  /* Font styles: */
  /* Default sans serif */
  /*font-family: sans-serif;*/
  /* Default serif */
  font-family: serif;
  /* Specific font with generic fall-back */
  /* font-family: "Calibri Light", sans-serif; */
  /*font-family: "OpenDyslexic", sans-serif;*/
}
pre,
code,
pre code {
  /* line spacing */
  line-height: 150%;
  /* Default monospace */
  font-family: monospace;
  /* Specific fixed-width font with generic fall-back */
  /*font-family: "Consolas", monospace;*/
  /*font-family: "OpenDyslexicMono", monospace;*/
}
ol,
ol ol,
ol ol ol { /* Nested lists all use decimal numbering */
  list-style-type: decimal;
}
em {
  /* if you want underlining instead of italics */
  /*font-style: normal;
  border-bottom-style: solid;
  border-bottom-width: 1px;
  padding-bottom:      2px;*/
  text-decoration-skip-ink: auto;
}
h2 { /* Put a horizontal line above major headings to assist screen viewing */
  border-top:  1px solid #D5DAD5;
  margin-top:  80px;
  padding-top: 20px;
  }
</STYLE>