# Instructions for choice of challenge in `choice.md` #

This is document version 1, dated 2025-02-24.

These instructions apply to the file in the IntelliJ project called
`choice.md`.

1. You MAY customize the CSS for your accessibility needs.
2. You MUST personalize the information at the top of the `choice.md`
   file.
3. You MUST rename the heading that shows your choice of challenge.
4. You MUST acknowledge lecture notes, lab sheets, tutorials, the
   course reading, and any additional resources you have used. Do this
   in the `acknowledgements.md` file.
5. You SHOULD hyperlink help from written sources, such as the course
   reading, Piazza, and CodeGolf &mdash; it is not necessary to
   hyperlink to lecture materials: instead say which lecture(s) the
   information comes from.
6. You SHOULD use the abbreviated hyperlink generated by the website's
   `share` button for posts from the StackExchange family (whether
   CodeGolf or another of their sites).

# Table of contents #

* [Audience](#audience)
* [Main justifications for choosing this challenge](#main-justifications-for-choosing-this-challenge)
* [Confidence](#confidence)
* [Comparison of the winning design with the losing design](#comparison-of-the-winning-design-with-the-losing-design)

# Audience #

Define your target audience. Try to be specific but not overly
restrictive. You need to specify what your audience need to know already, and what
you expect they will learn &mdash; or hope they will learn because
some people are remarkably resistant to learning. Being enthusiastic
as the teacher really helps overcome that barrier. Think of all the
times you have heard someone justify their favourite school subject
because of the teacher.

You might need to revise your definition once you are further through
creating your worksheet. However, you should start by having some
definition of your target audience otherwise you will likely waste
considerable time making an unfocused or unsuitable worksheet. 

[Back to table of contents](#table-of-contents-)

# Main justifications for choosing this challenge #

Here you give the main reasons showing your choice of challenge.  As
part of this, **briefly** outline your initial thoughts on the topic's
suitability for you as a topic, but be specific to your situation and
include a self-assessment of what you believe your Java level is.

You could perhaps start by expanding one of these seeds:

- you find the topic interesting &mdash; say specifically why;
- you could (not) easily think of a way to solve this because your
  Java level is ...;
- you think it is easy to explain to beginners because you are a
  beginner yourself;
- you think it is hard to explain to beginners because you are an
  experienced programmer and want the practice;
- as an experienced programmer you can think of a really cool yet
  simple way to solve the challenge;
- as an experienced programmer you can think of a really cool way to
  solve the challenge but it's too advanced for beginners and you want
  the challenge of finding a simpler solution;
- as a beginner you have just learnt a particular topic in Java, can
  see how it might fit this challenge, and want the practice.

[Back to table of contents](#table-of-contents-)

# Confidence #

Looking at the challenge on CodeGolf, briefly justify what gives you
confidence about the quality of the challenge. Include evidence by
pointing to **specific** pieces of information such as but not limited
to:

- the wording of the challenge &mdash; you may directly quote but
  quotes **MUST** be both brief (ideally below 6&nbsp;words otherwise
  you should paraphrase) and accompanied by your own interpretation of
  the quote;
- the number of votes (but never confuse popularity with quality);
- the followup questions asking for clarifications and the Original
  Poster's (OP's) responses;
- updates to and clarifications about the challenge.

Examine the submitted CodeGolf answers, especially the algorithms they
use, and decide whether you feel the nature and wording of the
challenge encourages creativity in programmers and how that seems
applicable to the type of beginner you are targeting.

# Comparison of the winning design with the losing design #

Show how you picked the "winner" from your two designs.

[Back to table of contents](#table-of-contents-)

<STYLE>
* { /* Don't leave any empty lines or IntelliJ might not render correctly */
  /* Text size */
  font-size:   1.1rem;
  /*font-size:   1.2rem;*/
  /* Zenburn dark theme */
  background-color: #2A252A;
  color:            #D5DAD5;
  /* One Dark theme */
  /*background-color: #282C34;
  color:            #ABB2BF;*/
  /* white-ish on dull blue-ish */
  /*background-color: DarkSlateGray;
    color:            AntiqueWhite;*/
  /* white on black */
  /*background-color: black;
  color: white;*/
  /* black on white */
  /*background-color: white;
  color: black;*/
  /* nearly black on bright yellow */
  /*background-color: #FFFFAA;
  color:            #080808;*/
  /* black on bright blue */  
  /*background-color: #99CCFF;
  color:            black;*/
}
body {
  /* width of the text column */
  width: 80%;
  /* line spacing */
  line-height: 180%;
  /*line-height: 200%;*/
  /* Font styles: */
  /* Default sans serif */
  /*font-family: sans-serif;*/
  /* Default serif */
  font-family: serif;
  /* Specific font with generic fall-back */
  /* font-family: "Calibri Light", sans-serif; */
  /*font-family: "OpenDyslexic", sans-serif;*/
}
pre,
code,
pre code {
  /* line spacing */
  line-height: 150%;
  /* Default monospace */
  font-family: monospace;
  /* Specific fixed-width font with generic fall-back */
  /*font-family: "Consolas", monospace;*/
  /*font-family: "OpenDyslexicMono", monospace;*/
}
ol,
ol ol,
ol ol ol { /* Nested lists all use decimal numbering */
  list-style-type: decimal;
}
em {
  /* if you want underlining instead of italics */
  /*font-style: normal;
  border-bottom-style: solid;
  border-bottom-width: 1px;
  padding-bottom:      2px;*/
  text-decoration-skip-ink: auto;
}
h2 { /* Put a horizontal line above major headings to assist screen viewing */
  border-top:  1px solid #D5DAD5;
  margin-top:  80px;
  padding-top: 20px;
  }
</STYLE>