# Instructions for acknowledgements in `acknowledgements.md` #

This is document version 1, dated 2025-02-24.

These instructions apply to the file in the IntelliJ project called
`acknowledgements.md`.

## Notes ##

- "**People**" includes but is not limited to posters on CodeGolf or
  Piazza, friends and family, lab demonstrators, tutors, and fellow
  students.
- "**Technology**" includes but is not limited to writing tools (such
  as grammarly and
  [The Angry Reviewer](https://www.angryreviewer.com/ "Angry Reviewer for checking academic writing style"),
  translation tools, language generation tools (including AI-based
  ones), dictionaries, and thesauruses.

## Rules ##

1. You MAY customize the CSS for your accessibility needs.
2. You MUST personalize the information at the top of the
   `acknowledgements.md` file.
3. You SHOULD choose an arrangement that is consistent, clear, and
   quick to read.
4. You MUST acknowledge lecture notes, lab sheets, tutorials, the
   course reading, and any additional resources you have used.
5. You SHOULD hyperlink help from written sources, such as the course
   reading, Piazza, and CodeGolf &mdash; it is not necessary to
   hyperlink to lecture materials: instead say which lecture(s) the
   information comes from.
6. You SHOULD use the abbreviated hyperlink generated by the website's
   `share` button for posts from the StackExchange family (whether
   CodeGolf or another of their sites)
7. You MUST put your acknowledgements in a format that someone else
   should find intuitive, helpful, and easy to read. Make your
   acknowledgements useful but not overly detailed.

<STYLE>
* { /* Don't leave any empty lines or IntelliJ might not render correctly */
  /* Text size */
  font-size:   1.1rem;
  /*font-size:   1.2rem;*/
  /* Zenburn dark theme */
  background-color: #2A252A;
  color:            #D5DAD5;
  /* One Dark theme */
  /*background-color: #282C34;
  color:            #ABB2BF;*/
  /* white-ish on dull blue-ish */
  /*background-color: DarkSlateGray;
    color:            AntiqueWhite;*/
  /* white on black */
  /*background-color: black;
  color: white;*/
  /* black on white */
  /*background-color: white;
  color: black;*/
  /* nearly black on bright yellow */
  /*background-color: #FFFFAA;
  color:            #080808;*/
  /* black on bright blue */  
  /*background-color: #99CCFF;
  color:            black;*/
}
body {
  /* width of the text column */
  width: 80%;
  /* line spacing */
  line-height: 180%;
  /*line-height: 200%;*/
  /* Font styles: */
  /* Default sans serif */
  /*font-family: sans-serif;*/
  /* Default serif */
  font-family: serif;
  /* Specific font with generic fall-back */
  /* font-family: "Calibri Light", sans-serif; */
  /*font-family: "OpenDyslexic", sans-serif;*/
}
pre,
code,
pre code {
  /* line spacing */
  line-height: 150%;
  /* Default monospace */
  font-family: monospace;
  /* Specific fixed-width font with generic fall-back */
  /*font-family: "Consolas", monospace;*/
  /*font-family: "OpenDyslexicMono", monospace;*/
}
ol,
ol ol,
ol ol ol { /* Nested lists all use decimal numbering */
  list-style-type: decimal;
}
em {
  /* if you want underlining instead of italics */
  /*font-style: normal;
  border-bottom-style: solid;
  border-bottom-width: 1px;
  padding-bottom:      2px;*/
  text-decoration-skip-ink: auto;
}
h2 { /* Put a horizontal line above major headings to assist screen viewing */
  border-top:  1px solid #D5DAD5;
  margin-top:  80px;
  padding-top: 20px;
  }
</STYLE>